All data sitting in BigQuery, is great if you're
an analyst who's exploring for insights with SQL. But it's often not enough
for your stakeholders. They want to see and
interact with your data in a more intuitive
and visual way. Data visualization is
a powerful tool to let you explore your data also before
presenting your results. Speaking of exploration,
a new and popular way to explore your datasets is
available right within BigQuery. After you execute a query, you could explore in Data Studio
to immediately start creating visuals or explore as part of building a dashboard. Now, here's an example of
an actual Data Studio report. They don't have to
understand the numbers. But just on the surface, Now what do you think
this report is trying to do? In this case, it was
the ad performance for the 2016 Olympic games that
were broadcasted on NBC. The role of your report
should be to highlight the key insights that
your audience cares about. Don't show them everything, focus and filter their attention
to just what those data points or those insights that they need
to be seeing right then. Telling a good story with your data on your
dashboard is critical because your users are
likely not going to care about that amazing pipeline
you just built, if the output of the dashboard
is ugly and hard to use. Take it from experience.
Data Studio comes with pre-built templates
like this one that monitors your GCP Billing
in a dashboard. You can even connect this one to your own GCP account to monitor
your own spending and do some fun analysis like track incoming BigQuery jobs and the amount of data that
those queries are processing. Here is a quick walk-through
of the Data Studio UI. Now keep in mind that the team is continuously updating
the product, so refer to their
documentation as a link for those best examples
in additional practices. The Data Studio homepage shows the dashboards and
the data sources that you have access to. It's an important distinction
between the two. Connected data sources
can feed into dashboards but just because somebody has access
to your dashboard, doesn't mean they automatically
are granted permission to view the underlying data
that's presented, because that could be
controlled in BigQuery or elsewhere in your GCP project. Anyway, there are two ways to create a new report from scratch: from the templates panel
up at the top, or from the button in
the lower right-hand corner. The first thing you
need to do is tell Data Studio where your
data is coming from. That again is known
as the data source. A Data Studio report
can have any number of data sources but we'll
just start with one. The data source picker shows all the data sources
that you have access to. Note that you can
have any or all of these data sources in
a single Data Studio report. Since Data Studio reports
and datasets can be shared, you should be aware
of the ramifications of adding a new data source. When you add a data
source to a report, other people who can
view the report, can potentially see
all the data in that data source if you share
that data source with them. Anyone who can edit
the report can also use all the fields from any added data sources to
create new charts with them. You can click "Add to Report" to connect the data source and then you're ready to
start visualizing.