Now let's look at some tips and tricks for chart creation. The mantra in Data Studio is click and draw,
not drag-and-drop. So you select the chart type. Then you draw a box
where you want it to go. Data Studio automatically adds some appropriate fields that it thinks could be
useful to your chart. The chart property's panel
on the right, is where you can
configure your chart. You can give your report
a name just by clicking on the title
and editing it. One thing to watch out for, since Data Studio is
based on Google Drive, you can have
duplicative filenames. Click View to see what your
users will ultimately see, and here's our report. Notice it looks very similar
to when you were editing it. But as a viewer, you can't modify the report. Note that you can mouse over any of the charts and
graphs on the report. This is live data, it's not just a static image. So this report may
not look like much, but with just a few mouse clicks, you can connect to
a data source like Google Analytics and create a chart graphing
session data over time. A few more key things to know, Dimension chips are green. Dimensions are things like categories or buckets
of information. Dimension values could
be things like names, descriptions, or other
characteristics of a category. Metric chips are blue. Metrics measure dimension values. Metrics represent measurements or aggregations such as a sum, x plus y, a count, how many of x, or even
a ratio, x over y. You can even create
simple metrics through calculated fields, like field one plus field two. This would be much more complex, using over 50 calculated
field functions available in Data Studio. A calculated field can
also be a dimension. For example, you could use a regular expression
to extract part of a landing page URL or a keyword into a new dimension
to make it easier to read. Lastly, you can share and collaborate your dashboards
with your team. Keep in mind that when
you share a report, if you're connected to
an underlying data source like a BigQuery data set, Data Studio does not
automatically grant permissions to
viewers and that data source if the viewer
doesn't already have them and this is for
data security reasons. After you share your report, users can interact
with filters and sort, and then you can collect feedback on the usage
of your report through Data Studio's
native integration with Google Analytics.