Now, let's take a look
at how you can visualize your insights on
top of a dashboard. So earlier we took a look at the bikeshare_trips data
inside of BigQuery. One of the things that I want
to highlight before we jump into the dashboard building, is when you click on
a dataset inside of BigQuery, there's a native integration
with Data Studio. Actually you know
on the Data Studio you can create a data source, but did you know
inside of BigQuery, you can actually click on
the table under Export, there's this new option
called Exploring Data Studio, and this is just the raw table being passed in as a data source. It's an in-between this is
called the explorer view, and it's a great way
for exploration. Immediately, intelligently
Data Studio says, "Hey there's some
interesting fields that you might want to visualize like the originating station name in the total amount
of trips there." So you can see
the Caltrain station is just dominating it
for Townsend and Fourth that's one of
the last stops in SF. 72 thousand trips, and if you said I
didn't want a table, I want to see a bar chart
maybe sorted, and you can see
the clear dominance of the Caltrain station there, and maybe you're wondering
hey has always been the case? Instead of doing a filter
on the "where" clause, you can actually just
create a filter here. Start_date, let's see
what our options are, I don't want to
manually pick one, so I'm going to click
on the auto date range, Last year Apply, and you
can see without any SQL, this is a very fast UI-based way
of exploring your data, hovering over, you can see the Ferry building - there
you go - 9,000 records but 10,000 rides for
just the year 2018. Great. That's just an easy way
that you can take a look at exploring common things
right where your data lives. But if you're looking to build
a fully-fledged dashboard, you can save that
and essentially it promotes this one visual view, and what that's going to do is if you went over to Data Studio, that would then promote it as
a dashboard that you have. So you have data sources and
then you have the reports. What I'm going to show
you as a prebuilt report that everyone has
for Acme marketing, just to highlight some
of the key things that you can do inside
of Data Studio, and we'll use this template, we'll agree to the terms
and conditions, we'll agree to helping
Data Studio get better, and use the template we're going to make
a copy of this report, we're going to authenticate and one of my favorite outages
here at Google, is "good artists copy
great artists steal," and that's exactly what I tend to do with when I find
a nice visual dashboard. So it's pretty trivial. Obviously, you
don't get access to the underlying data
source unless it's a public one like the ones
that we're doing now, but you just get
a copy of a dashboard. So someone's done something
amazing with like geospatial
visualization or these cool little up-down arrows based on the trend
that you see here, and you want to know
how you set that up. You can essentially just make a copy of
that dashboard then edit at your leisure
without worrying about breaking
their production dashboard. So just a few things I wanted to highlight in here that
you saw a little bit earlier in the lecture:
The first thing is you always want to be
cognizant of what the viewer is going to see. So I'm constantly toggling
back between the view, looking at my dashboard, seeing the insights, in
this particular case, is just Google Analytics
visualized on a dashboard is in
most of our pages are coming from
organic search for this just example marketing
website and then referrals. So you want to be conscious of what the environment is going to look like for the for the user, whatever your target audience is, and then you can take
a look at adding things like compacting the numbers, so if you just wanted to show instead of 385,000
that is way too much, you could actually say the
1,000 or even like down to the millions and that
thing that's thing as well. So depending upon your users, you may want to aggregate, you're not showing them
too much of granularity. Filters are great too because
what you can do is you can adjust naturally
any of this style, but you can also specify a
default date range. So if you want to zoom
in on say you have a report that runs every week, you can set up it actually have a scheduled email to deliver
that as a PDF for folks. But if you want when people arrive at
the report just to have the last weeks of data and don't want to have them actually mess around with the filtering, you can do that by setting
up the date range, so it's going to auto date range. So you could say let's say just last week and we're going to say start Sunday or
something like that, and then automatically apply it. I don't know how recent
this data source goes. Oh wow, it actually does it until today and
that's really cool. You can see this data
that I think it's live connected to
a Google Analytics account. So you can see the session
trends for last week, and then announces
defaulted from this view. So every time people
go here they'll have the blinders on or the restriction of just
looking at last week's, and you could adjust it to
last month's whatever you want. So what I really like to do honestly is just create
all the visuals first, you can mess around with different chart
types you want. So if you didn't want
to have a time series, you could have the sparkline, you have many different options, and you can just click and
it'll change that over time. I think the team that actually created this dashboard
really did good job, so I'm not going
to mess around too much with what was here, but you can quickly
change between those, you can add collaborators and share your report with folks, give them viewer permissions,
editor permissions. You can add a nice
different bars for just static HTML or
regular rich text content, and honestly the sky's the limit. What I would advise you
to do is abide by what I like to call
the data to ink ratio, and you see that even though we can dump a lot more metrics on this page like fill up the whitespace here or
maybe at the top, you don't want to
overwhelm your visitors. That's why a lot of
the best reports that I see and that I recommend, start with high level KPIs or
key performance indicators, obviously depending
upon your use case, and then break down to
give you the title. It's imperative that you
have a title and you're labeling your axes
and your labels, and just draw
people's attention slowly. So maybe you start at
the high level of detail, and you're looking for the trends which has a nice use
of color here, and then you scroll down and
you get a little bit more of the detail as you
scroll down the report. But that said, there's a ton of templates that exist out
there for dashboards. You probably have experienced building dashboards and
other different tools. Take a look at Data Studio, it's very easy to connect to other different data sources
and you can create multiple different pages
of your report if you want a different
level of granularity depending upon the user
that's coming into there. But the best way to get
experience with Data Studio is honestly just
open up a dashboard, start creating new charts
and see where it takes you, and the good news mean
normal things work seriously. So you could delete
something and you want to undo or you want to redo, it's a very friendly platform, it's hard hard to break
this type of thing. But that said, you need to have a good dataset to bring
in to visualize first. So you'll be spending
a lot of time in BigQuery, creating those views, creating those tables that you actually want to report off of, and then the fun really
begins when you get to visualize all that
together. All right.