Hi, I'm Carolyn Ujcic. I lead a team of machine learning engineers who have successfully implemented many machine
learning projects across various industries. So far in this course, you've been applying
machine learning to your structured datasets
with custom models. It's time to widen our aperture and look at
unstructured datasets, like images and
also other approaches to doing ML that don't involve
custom model building. Here's our agenda. We'll
first see how ML on unstructured datasets is
driving value for businesses. Then, we'll look at the intuition and models
behind unstructured data. After that, is a critical topic on choosing
the right ML approach. Whether to build
a model from scratch, or use pre-existing
building blocks. Lastly, we'll do a demo
to classify text using three different approaches
and compare the results. Here are just a few
customer examples of companies who have used the ML tools on Google Cloud
Platform on their datasets. The left to right ordering
is reflective of more low-level programming to more abstraction and UI based. Aucnet built their
own custom model to classify images of car parts
and estimate price. Ocado used parsed results from the Natural Language API to route customer emails to
the correct responders. Giphy use the out-of-
the box vision API to find the text and memes using
optical character recognition. It then can reject inappropriate uploads based
on sentiment or keywords. Uniqlo designed to
shopping chat bot using the dialogue flow UI. Dialogue flow is a Google owned
company which specializes in building ML based interfaces like intelligent chatbots. Let's look at some other use
cases for ML and business. You might be Airbus and
use machine-learning to differentiate between
Clouds and snow cover. If you're stumped like I am, the Clouds are in
the upper right part of the right image
highlighted in red. You might be an economic
forecasts firm looking to track the global fleet of container ships via
satellite imagery. Knowing the amount of
cargo being carried, might help improve
your economic forecast by days or months ahead of
the official numbers. Medical images are
ripe for innovation. For example, you could diagnose
medical conditions like diabetic retinopathy earlier when it's easier to treat
and prevent blindness. The key takeaway is
that ML can automate tasks that may save
or assist a human team. Recently, the latest
models are even outperforming humans
in some domains. Also image classification as a field is more than just
binary classification tools. Later in this course,
you will experiment with the pre-built Vision API model
which allows you to pass through
a JSON request and get back a ranked list of associated
labels for your image. Also if you have more than one
subject matter in a photo, you can draw bounding boxes and classify pieces of
an image as well. Modern image classification
models can even generate captions describing what is going on in the image, like a map of dependencies, like two hockey players
are fighting over a puck. Here it's important
to call out that even the best models can and will make mistakes
in their predictions. Like the road sign captioned as a refrigerator filled with
lots of food and drinks. As you saw, there were a lot of impressive uses for machine
learning these days. Like detecting
objects and images, helping to detect diseases and even enabling cars
to drive themselves. But AI can also be used
in more playful ways too. Through a pose estimation model, a Google AI experiment
called moved mirror, can match your real-time
movements to hundreds of images of people doing similar poses from
around the world. Feel free to try it out
yourself and have some fun. Then tune back into
this course to learn how image classification
models extract features like these from images.