We've covered machine learning
throughout this course, but that was just one approach,
custom model building. In our first challenge, you may recall you inherited a Spark ML job that your data science team created to predict
housing rentals. The second challenge
had you create a forecasting model with
BigQuery ML from scratch, although you've saved time by coding and running
it in just SQL. It's now time to zoom back out on approaches to
machine learning and even look at some ways
we can apply it without having to
write code at all. There are three approaches to AI that you should consider. You have already seen and built custom models
with BigQuery ML, and we have a separate set
of courses on TensorFlow for
even deeper model building. A good rule of thumb is
to consider custom model building only when you
have a lot of data, like 100,000 plus to
millions of examples. But what if you don't? Consider using a pre-built AI
which are models like the Video Intelligence and Cloud Vision APIs
that you saw before. In addition, if you're
looking to build a chat bot, start with Dialogflow, which is a full fledged
application with ML built in. But what about if
the building blocks don't work well for
the specificity, you need on your data? That's when you should consider Auto ML as a good candidate. It can even work with
just a little bit of data like 10-100
images per label. This lesson covers each of
these approaches in detail. First step is using pre-built AI building blocks
for your use case. Pre-built models are
offered as services. In many cases,
these building blocks can be used to create
the application you want without the expense or complexity of creating
your own models. Cloud-Speech-to-Text
converts audio to text for data processing, Cloud Natural Language
API recognizes parts of speech called
entities and sentiment, Cloud Translation converts text in one language to another, Dialogflow Enterprise
Edition is used to build chatbots to
conduct conversations, Cloud Text-to-Speech converts text into high-quality
voice audio, Cloud Vision API is
for working with and recognizing content
in still images, and Cloud Video
Intelligence API is for recognizing motion
and action in video. Good machine-learning
models require lots of high-quality
training data. As we mentioned before, you should aim for 100,000 plus records to train on
for custom model. If you don't have
that kind of data, pre-built models are
a great place to start. Let's take a look back at one of the most popular ones that I use when I travel overseas,
the Translation API.