Next, let's discuss
how you can build an intelligent chatbot on top of an already
existing solution. Increasingly, customers
do not want to go to your website and click on a button or even
send you an email, they want to talk to
someone interactively. The first solution years
ago was setting up a call center and manually
answering each call, but that doesn't scale. So many companies have turned to automation and machine learning to help solve this problem. Gartner estimates
that in a few years, companies will be
investing more in creating conversational interfaces
like chatbots than even on
mobile app development. Is this chatbot demo just the Speech API paired with a transcription service on top? Nope. What I'm showing here is a high level conversational
agent tool called Dialogflow, which has ML built into
its conversations. Dialogflow is a
platform for building natural and rich
conversational experiences. It was formerly named api.ai until Google acquired it and rebranded it into Dialogflow. At its core, Dialogflow is a powerful natural language
understanding engine to process and understand
natural language input. In other words, it lets
you easily achieve a conversational
user experience by handling the natural language
understanding for you. Dialogflow has seen
continuous growth in its developer community and is becoming a conversational
experience standard. Google is an AI company with
a goal to make AI easy, fast, and useful for
enterprises and developers. Dialogflow is built on some of the same world-class AI assets and capabilities
that were originally developed for products
like Gmail and Search with new ones being
utilized on an ongoing basis. It incorporates Google's
ever-growing AI experience including machine
learning expertise, search capabilities,
speech recognition, and of course natural
language understanding. It has built-in
entity recognition which enables your agent to identify entities and label
by types such as person, organization, location,
events, products, and media. Also sentiment analysis
to give an understanding of the overall sentiment
expressed in a block of text. Even content classification, allows you to
classify documents in over 700 predefined categories like common greetings and
conversational styles. It has multi-language
support so you can analyze text in
multiple languages. Dialogflow works by putting
all of these ML capabilities together which you can then optimize for your own
training data and use case. Dialogflow then creates
unique algorithms for each specific
conversational agent, which continuously learns
and is trained and retrained as more and more users
engage with your agent. The three core benefits to using Dialogflow are building conversational
experiences faster, engaging end users
more efficiently, and maximizing reach across
geographies and platforms. Build your agent quickly
by starting with just a few training phrases or using one of over 40
pre-built agents. These pre-built agents can be used directly out of the box or imported into your agent to build on and customize
for your own use case. These include everything
from food delivery to hotel reservations to
news and reminders. You can easily import these pre-built agents from
the Dialogflow console. You can rely on Dialogflow's built-in natural language
understanding capabilities, model training, and analytics that are already taken
care of for you. Dialogflow's built-in
analytics can tell you a lot about your users'
interactions with your agent. For example, it can show you the breakdown of how often different intents
are triggered. This shows you how
your users are spending their time in conversation
with your agent. This can also help you prune
any underutilized intents. You can also deploy your agent
on multiple platforms and utilize single-click integration such as Facebook Messenger, Kik, Twilio, Twitter, Slack, and Cisco Spark
just to name a few. The Google Assistant
integration allows you to quickly deploy your agent to any Assistant-enabled platform such as the mobile app
or Google Home device. The web demo integration
allows you to test out your chatbot in
an embedded web page. There are also integrations for other popular apps such
as Facebook Messenger, Slack, and Twitter which are enabled with
quick authentication. With all of these features and the natural-language
understanding good built-in, let's see the kind
of smart, rich, relevant conversations that
Dialogflow can bring to life.