Hi, I'm Lak. Welcome to the first module of our Big Data
Fundamentals course. It provides an introduction
to Google Cloud Platform. In this module, we'll examine the infrastructure behind
Google Cloud Platform or GCP, which was originally
built to power Google's own applications
and is now available to you. Then we'll cover the big data and ML products that
are built on top of that infrastructure
and when you should choose which products for
your solution architecture. After that, my favorite part
of this course, learning from other customers who are using Google
Cloud by exploring their use cases and
getting inspired to solve similar challenges for
your own teams and projects. You will learn where
you can look up reference case studies of GCP customers by
industry or by product, and then you'll examine their solution architecture
in a short activity. Building the right
team structure is critical to solving these
big data challenges. We will explore
the different types of roles and personas for building a successful
big data team within your organization. Consider for a second, the impact that
Google Search has on our daily lives with
timely and relevant responses. Now think of other
Google products: Gmail, Google Maps, Chrome,
YouTube, Android, Play, Drive. Each of these products has
over one billion monthly users. Google has had to develop
the infrastructure to ingest, manage, and serve all the data
from these applications, and to do so, with a growing user base and data requirements that
are constantly evolving. Seven products with
a billion users. Actually there's
an eighth Google product that has a billion end-users, Google Cloud, except
that it's your users. The end users served by Google Cloud customers
such as Home Depot, Spotify, Twitter, New York Times, Colgate-Palmolive and Go Check. Let's look at
the building blocks behind Google's big data
infrastructure and how you can leverage
it with Google Cloud. There are four
fundamental aspects of Google's core infrastructure and a top layer of products and services that you will
interact with most often. The base layer that covers all of Google's applications
and therefore Google Cloud's too, is security. On top of that, are compute, storage,
and networking. These allow you to
process, store, and deliver business
changing insights, data pipelines, and
machine learning models. Finally, while running
your big data applications on bare metal virtual
machines as possible, Google has developed
a top layer of big data and ML
products to abstract away a lot of the hard work of managing and scaling
that infrastructure for you.