So far, we've looked at compute and we've
looked at storage. The third part of Google Cloud infrastructure
is networking. Google's high-quality
private network, petabit bisectional bandwidth, and Edge points-of-presence
are combined using state- of-the-art software- defined networking to
deliver a powerful solution. First, the private network. Google has laid
thousands of miles of fiber optic cable that crosses oceans with repeaters
to amplify optical signals, and as you can see in this
amusing GIF, it's shark-proof. Google's data centers
around the world are interconnected by
this private Google network, which by some publicly
available estimates, carries as much as 40 percent of the world's internet
traffic everyday. This is the largest
network of its kind on Earth and it
continues to grow. Second, the petabit
bisectional bandwidth. One of the teams
we will discuss in this course is a separation
of compute and storage. You no longer need to do everything on a single machine or even a single cluster of machines with their
own dedicated storage. Why? Well, if you have
a fast-enough network, you can perform computations
on data located elsewhere like
many distributed servers. Google's Jupiter Network can
deliver enough bandwidth to allow 100,000 machines to
communicate amongst each other. So for any machine to communicate with
any other machine in the data center at
over 10 gigabits per second. This full duplex bandwidth means that locality within
the cluster is not important. If every machine can talk to every other machine at 10 Gbps, racks don't matter for data analytics and
machine learning. But you need to ingest data probably from around the world. You need to serve out the results of your analytics
and predictions, perhaps to users who are
all around the world. This is where Edge points
of presence come in. The network, Google's Network, interconnects with
the public Internet at more than 90 internet exchanges and more than 100 points
of presence worldwide. When an Internet user sends
traffic to a Google resource, Google responds to
the user's request from an Edge network
location that will provide the lowest
delay or latency. Google's Edge caching
network places content close to end-users
to minimize latency. Your applications in GCP, like your machine learning models, can take advantage of
this Edge network too.