The last piece of core
infrastructure underpinning your data pipelines and machine learning models
is Google great security. When you build an application on your on-premises
infrastructure, you are responsible for
the entire stack's security, from the physical security of the hardware and the premises in which they're housed through the encryption of
the data on disk, the integrity of your network, and all the way up to securing the content stored in
those applications. But when you move
an application to GCP, Google handles many of the
lower layers of security like, the physical security of
the hardware and its premises, the encryption of data on disk, and the integrity of
the physical network. Because of its scale, Google can deliver a higher level of security at these layers, than most customers could
afford to on their own. The upper layers of
the security stack, including the securing of data,
remain your responsibility. But even here Google
provides tools like Cloud IAM to help you implement the policies that you
define at these layers. Communications over
the internet to our public cloud services
are encrypted in transit. Google's network
and infrastructure have multiple layers of protection to defend
our customers against denial of
service attacks. Stored data is
automatically encrypted at rest and distributed for
availability and reliability. This helps guard against unauthorized access and
service interruptions. One specific product
I'll highlight here, that you will see a lot of
in this course is BigQuery. Google Cloud's petabyte scale
analytics data warehouse. Data in a BigQuery table is encrypted using
a data encryption key. Then, those data
encryption keys are themselves encrypted with
key encryption keys. This is known as
envelope encryption and it provides
additional security. BigQuery also allows you to provide your own
encryption keys. These are called Customer
Managed Encryption Keys. Inside BigQuery, you can monitor your team's BigQuery usage
and running queries, and proactively limit access to data at a row
and a column level. We cover BigQuery as a service
in greater detail later. But in this section, we just wanted to point out BigQuery's security controls
as an example of the security controls
that you will find in every service on GCP.