Hello and welcome.
I'm Philipp Maier, a course developer with
Google Cloud Platform. This is a brief tutorial on using Qwiklabs in this course. I'm about to show
you the interactive hands-on lab's platform
called Qwiklabs, which is part of Google Cloud. Qwiklabs allows you to get practical hands-on
experience with GCP and provisions you with
Google account credentials, so you can access
a GCP Console at no cost. The first step is to log into Coursera in an incognito window. Depending on your browser, it may also be called
private browsing or in-private browsing. Logging into Coursera
from a private window, ensures that you don't
accidentally use your own Google account while accessing the Google
Cloud Console. We don't want you to get any unexpected bills at
the end of the month. Check out the links
below this video for different browser
support articles. Once logged into Coursera
using an incognito window, return to your course and go
to the lab activity page. So if prompted,
you want to accept the honor code and you might even have
to enter your name. Then, you want to click
the Open Tool button to open the lab in a new tab. So within the new tab, you can now click Start Lab. You want to wait until
the lab running is displayed. For each lab, you
will have a timer in the top right with
the remaining access time. Your lab will automatically
end when the timer runs out. On the left, you have
the connections detail. Click Open Google
Console and then sign in with the
username and password provided in the
connections detail pane. So I'm going to
copy the username. Paste that in here.
I'm also going to take the password. Paste
it in here too. Now, Qwiklabs creates
a new account for you each time
you launch a lab. Therefore, you need
to click through the initial account
setup windows. So essentially, I
need to accept this. I don't need to add
any recover phone number, so I can just click Done. I'm going to agree
to the terms of services and I don't
need any emails. Now, I can verify that
I'm using the Qwiklabs provided account and project
within the GCP Console. So up here, I see the project ID. Over here, I can
see the username. These are the same
ones that I was provided with in
the connections detail pane. You can also see that
the timer is still running. Now, some labs track
your work within the Qwiklabs provided
GCP project. If this is enabled,
you'll see a score in the top right corner
of the Qwiklabs window, as you can see right here. Your score increases as objectives are met
and you can click on the score to view the
individual steps to be scored. Now that I've completed the lab, I can see my score has been updated and I'm ready
to click End Lab. Once I click End Lab, the Qwiklabs provided project and any resources within
that project will be deleted. I can close a
Qwiklabs lab page and my grade will be updated with
my lab score in Coursera. That's it for this tutorial. Remember to launch Coursera in an incognito window
and use the Qwiklabs provided credentials to
sign into the GCP Console. Good luck with the labs and enjoy the rest of this course.