Choosing which big data and
machine learning products are the right mix for your solution is a critical
skill that you have to learn. Later on in this module, you will get the opportunity to examine the architecture that real Google Cloud customers use so that they can
serve as inspiration. Let's review the options
available to you for compute and storage
services so that you can better interpret
those use cases later. The service that
might be the most familiar to newcomers is Compute Engine which lets you run virtual machines on
demand in the Cloud. It's Google Cloud's
Infrastructure as a Service or IaaS solution. It provides maximum
flexibility for people who prefer to manage
server instances themselves. GKE, Google Kubernetes
Engine is different. Where Compute Engine is about individual machines
running native code, GKE is about clusters of
machines running containers. Containers have code packaged up with all its dependencies. So GKE enables you to run containerized applications
in a Cloud environment that Google manages for you under your
administrative control. Containerization is a way to package code that's designed to be highly portable and to use
resources very efficiently. Since most use cases involve multiple programs that need to execute and communicate
with each other, you need a way to orchestrate the containers running
these separate programs. That's what Kubernetes does. Kubernetes is a way to orchestrate code that's
running in containers. All the Kubernetes in GKE are outside the scope
of this course, are linked to our cloud
architecture specializations in the course resources. App Engine is GCP's fully managed Platform as a Service
or PaaS framework. That means it's
a way to run code in the Cloud without having to
worry about infrastructure. You just focus on
your code and let Google deal with all the provisioning
and resource management. You can learn a lot more
about App Engine in the specialization
Developing Applications in Google Cloud Platform. Cloud Functions is a completely serverless
execution environment or Functions as a Service, FaaS. It executes your code
in response to events whether those events occur once a day or
many times a second. Google's scales resources
as required but you only pay for the service
while your code runs. What's the difference between App Engine and Cloud Functions? Typically, App Engine is used for long-lived Web applications that can autoscale to millions, to billions of users. Cloud Functions are used for
code that's triggered by an event such as a new file
hitting Cloud storage. The fastest way to lift and shift your data workloads is by provisioning a VM and
running your code. You will experiment
with this later on when you run Spark ML jobs on Cloud Dataproc which spins up Compute Engine
instances for your cluster. Most applications need a
database of some kind. If you've built
a cloud application, you can install and
run your own database for it on a virtual machine
in Compute Engine. You simply start up
the virtual machine, install your database engine, and set it up just
like in a datacenter. Alternatively, you can use Google's fully-managed
database and storage services. What all these - Bigtable, Cloud Storage,
Cloud SQL, Spanner, Datastore - what all these have in
common is that they reduce the work it takes to store
different kinds of data. GCP offers relational and
non-relational databases and worldwide object storage. You will learn more about
these later on in this course. GCP also offers fully- managed big data and
machine learning services. Just as with storage
and database services, you could build and implement
these services yourself. But why manage the
infrastructure for compute and storage where it can be fully
managed by Google Cloud? Here's a complete list of big data and
ML products organized by where you would
likely find them in a typical data
processing workload. On the left, you will see the foundation to where
your raw data is stored. If your data isn't
stored on GCP yet, you can ingest it using
the tools that you see next. After your data is on GCP, you can analyze it using
the tools in the third column and run machine learning on it with the tools in
the fourth column. The last column is
how you can serve out your data and ML insights
out to your users.