Now, it's time to explore some cool Big Data and
Machine Learning solutions that have been built
using Google Cloud. Then, you will get
a chance to find a use case and explore
it in your own activity. Keller Williams is
a US real estate company. Keller Williams uses
AutoML Vision to automatically recognize
specific features of houses, like this house has
a built-in bookcase. This helps agents
get houses listed faster and buyers find houses
that meet their needs. Neil Dholakia, Chief Product Officer of Keller
Williams says that by training a custom machine
learning model to recognize common elements of furnishings and architecture, customers can
automatically search home listing photos
for specific features, like granite countertops or even more general styles like, "Show me modern houses." This application of
machine learning allows Keller Williams'
realtors to quickly walk around a home
and record a video, and use the object
detection capabilities of AutoML Vision to find and tag key aspects of the home that customers
might want to search on. A big benefit for their
organization is that they already had many existing images and videos of home
walk-throughs already. They simply fed them into the pre-built AutoML Vision
model and customized it, all without writing
a line of code. You will learn more about
AutoML Vision and practice creating machine learning models with it later in this course. Ocado, the UK online only
grocery supermarket used machine learning to
automatically route emails to the department that needed to
actually handle them. This avoids multiple rounds of reading and
triaging those emails. With their old process, all the mails went to a central mailbox where
the email was read, and then routed to the person or department that
could handle it. Unfortunately, the
central mailbox with somebody reading all the emails,
that doesn't scale. So it led to long delays
and poor user experience. So Ocado used machine learning, specifically the ability
to read an email, to process natural language, to discover customer sentiment, and what the message
was about so that they could route it immediately
and automatically. One last use case. Kewpie manufactures baby food. In this case, quality is not necessarily
a matter of safety, because the food itself is safe. But if baby food is discolored, it tends to get parents
very concerned. So Kewpie turned to
Google and our partner BrainPad to build a solution that leverages
image recognition to detect low-quality or
discolored potato cubes. The machine learning algorithm enabled them to free people up from the tiring work of inspection and focused on
other more important work.