Now, it's your turn. One of the best ways
to inspire and drive your team and
projects to the cloud, is to show your stakeholders
examples from your industry, examples where
someone has already succeeded with
building a solution. For this activity, navigate to cloud.google.com/customers
and scroll down. For Products and Solutions, filter on big data analytics and also on machine learning. Select a customer use case
that interests you, then answer
these three questions. Number one, what were the barriers or challenges
the customer faced? The challenges are important, you want to understand
what they were. Second, how were these challenges solved with a cloud solution? What products did they use? Three, what was
the business impact? Take a moment to complete the activity and then
return to the video. For our example we chose GO-JEK, because they use a data
engineering solution that maps nicely to the topics that we're going to cover
as part of this course. GO-JEK is an
Indonesia-based company that gives shared
motorcycle rides, brings goods, and provides a wide variety of
other services for over two million families
across 50 cities in Indonesia. Their App has
over 77 million downloads, and they're connected with over a 150,000 merchants who sell through their delivery platform. If you're interested in GIS data, they have over one
million drivers delivering goods and giving rides across 50 cities and GO-JEK gets censored data
from all of these drivers. So GO-JEK manages
more than five terabytes per day of data for analysis. The Chief Technology
Officer, the CTO, Ajey Gore, gives
this meaningful statistic. For example, we ping everyone of our drivers
every 10 seconds. Which means,
six million pings per minute and eight
billion pings per day, that's Gore who's saying this. If you look at the scale and number of our customer
interactions as well, we generate about four terabytes to five terabytes
of data every day. We need to leverage this data
to tell our drivers where demand from customers is
strongest and how to get there. With the success of their on-demand
motorcycle ride service, GO-JEK faced the challenges when looking to scale their
existing big data platform. What challenges?
Their management team stated, "Most of the reports are
produced one day later so we couldn't identify the problems that were happening
as soon as possible." GO-JEK chose
Google Cloud Platform and migrated the data
pipelines to GCP, so that they could
get high performance with minimal day-to-day
maintenance. Their data engineering team uses Cloud Dataflow for streaming data processing and
Google Big Query for real-time business insights. Their end to architecture
looks like this. First, they ingest data from their mobile App online and IoT devices on vehicles like the GPS tracking
for deliveries. They ingest this data
into Cloud PubSub. Then, the data is brought
into Cloud Dataflow for processing and a variety of other data sources are used
to enrich this event data. Finally, after Dataflow
has done the processing, Dataflow streams that
data into BigQuery and BigQuery in this case is used as a data warehouse
to store the data. What's the business impact? So here's an example of one of the problems that
the GO-JEK team solved. The question was, how
could they quickly know which locations had too many
drivers or too few drivers? Too few drivers to meet
the demand for that area. To solve this problem, what does the team need to do? Number one, they needed to check the demand of bookings by customer against the supply of drivers and do
this thing in real-time. Then, the team needed to
identify who these drivers are and notify them to reroute
to higher demand areas. How they achieved this, was by building a streaming
event data pipeline using Cloud Dataflow. Driver locations would
ping out to Pub/Sub every 30 seconds and these locations would go into
Dataflow for processing. The data for pipeline aggregates
the supply pings from the drivers against
the requests for bookings, and then connects to GO-JEK's notification system
to alert drivers. From a technology standpoint, the system needs to handle an arbitrarily high throughput of messages and scale up
and down to process. Cloud Dataflow automatically
manages a number of workers, processing the pipeline
to meet demand. The GO-JEK team is then
able to visualize and highlight supply-demand
mismatch areas for management reporting, as you see in this example here. The green dots, the
small green dots, represent riders and
new booking requests, and the red dots, the small red dots, those are the drivers, so you have riders in the green dots and the drivers
in the small red dots. Then you see the areas
that the system has identified as a highest mismatch
of supply and demand, those areas are
highlighted in red like the train station which
has many booking requests, but not enough drivers. The team can now actively
monitor and ensure that they're sending drivers to
the areas in highest demand, which means faster
booking times for riders and more fairs
for the drivers.