So far, you've seen
the infrastructure, the software, and the customers who are already using GCP. But the most critical factor to the success of your future
big data and ML projects, is your team itself. The people and the core
skill sets required, will make or break
your next innovation. A common mistake that
companies make is that they go out and hire 10 PhD
machine learning scientists, and expect magic to happen. I see this a lot with
companies who are new to building data
science and ML teams. They focus on the ML researchers, and forget about all the help and guidance that
the ML researchers will need. The reality as my colleague Cassie has noted in a blog post, looks more like this. You need data engineers to build the pipelines and
get you clean data. Decision makers, to decide
how deep you want to invest in a data-driven opportunity while weighing the benefits
for the organization. Analysts, to explore
the data for insights and potential relationships
that could be useful as features in a
machine learning model. Statisticians, to help make your data-inspired decisions become true
data-driven decisions, with their added rigor. Applied machine
learning engineers, who have real-world
experience building production machine
learning models from the latest and best information and
research by the researchers. Data scientists, who have
the mastery over analysis, statistics, and machine learning. Analytics managers
to lead the team. Social scientists and
ethicists to ensure that the quantitative impact
is there for your project and, it's
the right thing to do. As I've written in a blog post on this subject,
it's linked below, a single person might have
a combination of these roles, but this depends on the size
of your organization. Your team size is one of the biggest drivers
in whether you should hire for
a specific skill set, up-skill from within,
or combine the two. Do you remember these
big data challenges? Can you see how different
roles would map to this? Within Google Cloud
training, my team and I have thought about the
different types of data science teams and roles
that are using Google Cloud, so that we can best tailor our data in ML courses and labs. One of the core
challenges we face, is how different types of users engage with our GCP
big data and AI products. We'll be using a few personas
in this course. Their backgrounds,
goals, and challenges, might be similar to yours. Let's meet them now, and you'll see them again later. Brittany and Theo lead their data engineering
team in managing their Hadoop cluster for the organization's data
pipelines and compute jobs. Their organization was
an early adopter of Hadoop for distributed
computing back in 2007, and they've built up
Hadoop jobs over time. Brittany and Theo's job
is to actively ensure that the Hadoop jobs are all run and that the cluster
is well maintained. They say, "Our CTO has challenged our data
engineering team to find ways we can spend less on managing
our on-prem cluster. Right now, we just want to
show her options that don't require any code changes
to our 100+ Hadoop jobs." Brittany and Theo
are data engineers who manage a company's
data platform, and are focused on reducing
maintenance burden. Jacob is a data analyst who has a background
in building and querying his company's MySQL transactional and
reporting database. As the company grows, the reporting tables in his RDBMS are already
starting to slow down. Users are reporting long query and dashboard loading times. He wants to find
an easy path for scaling his company's data reporting and not have to manage
another data system, as the data needs to grow. Jacob is a data analyst who wants to be able
to derive insights from data and disseminate them with as little
friction as possible. Rebecca is a data engineer, whose company specializes
in harnessing data from the Internet of
Things or IoT devices. She says, "I really want to design our data pipelines
for the future. For us, that means lots
and lots of streaming data from our IoT devices
with low latency." Her team lead has asked her to come up
with a plan to handle the expected 10X growth in streaming
data volumes this year. She wants to future proof
her team's pipelines, but doesn't want to spend
hours manually scaling hardware up and down as
streaming volume changes. Additionally, her
business stakeholder team wants insights from all the IoT devices in the field on their dashboards,
with minimal delay. Vishal says, "I pitched my team on the value
machine learning can add, and I've got buy-in
to build a prototype. But now I've got to
build a prototype. What are some of
the easiest ways I can see whether machine learning
is feasible for my data?" Vishal is an applied
machine learning engineer, who has a background in building machine learning models
in TensorFlow and Keras. His team is growing rapidly, and he's often asked
by his leadership, to assess the feasibility of machine learning for
a wide variety of projects. He doesn't have the time
to train and test all of the ideas
with custom models. He wants to empower his data analysts and
data engineering teams, by teaching them
machine learning. Do these personas sound familiar to your role
and your team? Next, we'll learn more about
the Google Cloud Platform, big data and machine learning
approaches and solutions, so that we can address
each of these challenges.