BigQuery natively supports GIS, or Geographic Information
System functions. For gleaning insights from
your geographic data points, like longitude and latitude. Let's examine how you can
put these into practice. In this SQL query
that you see here, we are plotting
the path of a hurricane using SQL and GIS functions. We first create
a geographic point based on lat long data. We also bring in other useful
fields, like wind speed, the distance the hurricane
is to land or landfall, and the radius of the hurricane. We query all this raw data from the BigQuery public dataset
from NOAA on hurricanes, and filter for one
hurricane in particular. You can see that in
the Where clause, that's hurricane Maria in 2017. Then, we geographically bound the points that we
care about with the "GIS within" function to ensure that it'll fit on
the map or the area of focus. So we can visualize these points. Lastly, we explore
our points using Geo Viz, which is a web tool for visualization of
geospacial data in BigQuery, but it uses the Google Maps APIs. Here you can see and
track the hurricane making landfall in the US. One of the best ways
to get better at data analysis is by practicing
in a variety of data sets. The BigQuery Public Datasets
program partners with companies and organizations to host their datasets in BigQuery, and then make them available
for analysis by the public. Currently, there are well over a 100 different datasets
for you to explore, and you can find them
all in the BigQuery web UI under Explore Data, which is located right
above your own datasets. So let's do a quick activity. Explore a BigQuery public
dataset that interests you. Then think of the following
questions to answer. What's the name of the dataset? How many records are
in some of the tables? Are there any data
quality concerns after you previewed that data? After analyzing this schema, what types of insights do
you think you could find? Lastly, are there
any other datasets that you can potentially join against this one for additional insights? Take a moment to find and
explore your dataset, and then we'll bring
in the head of Google Cloud BigQuery
Public Datasets Program, Shane Glass, and
he'll explore one of his favorite BigQuery
public datasets in a demo.