Hi, my name's Shane Glass, and I'm the Program Manager for Google Cloud's Public
Dataset Program. I'm here today to talk to you about the
public datasets we have available in BigQuery
and Google Cloud storage, as well as how they can
support your workloads. Don't worry, there's
a fun demo at the end, too. Now, the mission of
our public dataset program is quite simply to maximize the availability and accessibility of high-value, high-demand public data
assets through Google Cloud. We do this because
we fundamentally believe that it makes life a little bit easier for our users. We currently have
more than 130 datasets in our public dataset program, and these datasets are
onboarded and maintained by Googlers with provider
input and guidance. You can see here a sample of our data providers
including NOAA, The US Census Bureau, The United Nations
Statistics Division, The Federal Elections
Commission, and others. We're constantly
adding new datasets, and here are
just three examples of recently added
unstructured datasets all coming from NOAA, The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration. They include a high-resolution, rapid refresh weather model, the new GOES-16
satellite imagery, and NOAA's National Water
model that provides stream flow information across the continental United States. We also have datasets in BigQuery including the GitHub repository, the NOAA Global Surface
Summary of the Day that provides meteorological
observations going back to 1900, and the Ethereum
Blockchain along with six other cryptocurrencies. But don't just take
my word for it, let's see a demo specifically
looking at how you can use some of our
geospatial data sets to support your workflows. So let's look at
a demonstration that tells you how many lightning strikes
there were across the continental
United States in 2018, thanks to the lightning data we have available from NOAA. You can see here a query
that runs real quickly, and I'll give you
a concatenation, and a little bit cleaner format
so that it's easier to visualize this
data in Data Studio. So we'll click run down here, and a little like they do in the cooking shows, I
already have it finished. You can see here the number
of lightning strikes with a center point of
a one-tenth degree by one-tenth degree tile, that aggregates
the strikes across the US. We'll take a look in Data Studio, and see what we
notice trend-wise. We will flip over to our
cooking show finished version, and you can see here
the aggregated number of lightning strikes across
a year on average. But this doesn't
really tell us much as it's hard to see
the specific data points. So let's zoom in using the zoom area function
in Data Studio, and we'll zoom in to
the United States, and this is primarily
where the data comes from. Now, I'd originally expected Florida to have the most
lightning strikes per day, but as you can see what
really stands out on this map is the collection
of data here in Oklahoma. Now, I'm curious, and I
want to dig in further, but how can I use
public datasets to do that? Now, we can use
the geospatial capabilities or GIS that are built into BigQuery, and this helps
BigQuery understand the geospatial relationship
between datasets. Now, this particular query has a little preprocessing
done under the hood, but we're hopeful to make that unnecessary here in
the near future. For now, we'll
take the shortcut, and so this query it
gives us the return of a polygon for each child as well as the number of
lightning strikes by day, but let's say we
wanted to look at that in a more visual format. Well I'd come over to
BigQuery Geo Vis., The geovisualization capability
available for free. I can come down here,
and run the same query, see my results and define
which column is our geometry. From there, I give it a style
that best fits our data. In this case, I've
given an interval for the number of
strikes and location, and I can tell you as
a former Oklahoma resident, this makes a lot of sense to me. The areas of Oklahoma
that are notorious for the storms are also seeing the greatest number
of lightning strikes. But this is pretty broad. These are one-tenth
of a degree by one-tenth of a degree tiles
across the state. What is that actually mean? No one measures the world
in tenth-of-a-degree tiles, instead we define the world by boundaries in
most cases in the US, political and statistical
boundaries such as either counties
or census tracks. In this case, let's
take a look at one of the 10 boundary datasets
we have available in BigQuery through
the public dataset program, that defines the space around
each of these borders. In this case, we'll
start with counties and that's a pretty popular
one in Oklahoma. We run a pretty similar query
except this time we'll take a little shortcut so that
I only have to remember the state name as opposed
to the state FIPS code. Again, we'll run our results, and we'll see the counties this time is
the geometric column. Again, we can run
our visualization and add style that meets
the needs of our dataset. One of the nice features
about BigQuery Geo Viz, is it allows me to go in, and click on
an individual county, and see what the exact outputs were. We can see here for example, that Oklahoma County has about 300 lightning
strikes per day, and this pretty closely lines
up with what we saw from the other map except on
a more understandable boundary. What if we want to look at something more granular though, say for instance zip codes. Again, we'll take
the same dataset, but this time we'll define
it by the spaces of zip codes or zip code
tabulation areas in this case, and we'll run that through, and that gives you
a better idea of maybe what zip code
you want to avoid, assuming you don't like
lightning strikes. We'll go through
the same process, and we'll define the same style. This time, let's use a different method of defining
that data-driven column. So let's use
a linear extrapolation. We'll give it a low of 27. As you can see
the minimum down here, and then we'll go up
by 100 from here. So 120, 220, 320 and so on, and I'll want to get
over my max of 499. I'll quickly set
the colors down here, and I can scroll through
some different options to find one that suits my palette. In this case, I want
to do something pretty similar to the one I
used in the counties, and you can see here again, there's a dark concentration here around Oklahoma City,
but this time, I can drill down to
a more granular level, and see which zip codes
might make it the most likely for me to see some lightning strikes
in my backyard. So this is just one example of what can be done with
public datasets. If you're interested
in learning more and figuring out how you can join public datasets
with your private data sets, I encourage you to check
out GCP marketplace, and click on Datasets
on the left-hand side. There you can learn
more about datasets, and get started in
BigQuery today.