It's time to revisit the exciting topic of
machine learning. Previously in this course, your data science team
had to build a recommendation model
using Spark ML, that you then ran on
Cloud Dataproc for scale. Later in this module, you're going to be building
custom models yourself with just SQL
using BigQuery ML. But before we jump into the code, we need to expand
our Machine Learning Foundation and then cover the models and the key terminology
that you need to know before we set you off
to make predictions. When people think of AI
or machine learning, they generally think
of the advanced models like you saw earlier
on Google Photos, in video stabilization, and the smart reply feature in Gmail. Yes, later on this course
you will build image models and
unstructured data sets. But did you know that at Google, the majority of the models deployed are models that
operate unstructured data. These aren't your 50 plus layer-
deep neural networks that play StarCraft or chess. They're built on rows
and columns of data, just like you've seen experimented with inside of BigQuery. So if you have
a structured data set that you think is a good use
case for machine learning, the next step is to find a model type that is
appropriate for your use case. Out of all the models out there. What's a good place to start for you to start prototyping? Here's a decision tree - no pun
intended - to help guide us. We'll walk through each of
the different branches. The first question is, what kind of activity
that you're engaging in? Is there a right answer
or a ground truth that exists in your historical data that you want to
model and predict? If so, you want to start
with supervised learning. Alternatively, if you're
interested in just ruminating and exploring the data for
unknown relationships, you're welcome to try
unsupervised learning with maybe a clustering
model to start. Unsupervised learning is outside the scope of this course, but I'll link you to a few resources
to show how you can do it quickly with a clustering model
inside of BigQuery ML. The majority of the problems
we're going to tackle here are in these three areas: First, forecasting. That's like predicting
the next month's sales figures, the demand for your product. Second, classifying. Like high medium or low risk events or buy
or no buy decisions. Third, maybe you recommending something like a product
for a given user. An easy way to tell if you're
forecasting or classifying, is to look at the type of
label or special column, we'll cover that more later, of data that you're predicting. Generally, if it's
a numeric datatype like units sold or profits earned,
you're doing forecasting. If it's a string value, you're typically
doing classification. This row is either in
this class or this other class, and if you have
more than two classes or buckets like high, low, medium, you're doing what's called multi-class
classification. Now, once you have
your problem outlined, it's time to go
shopping for models which will be the tools to
help you achieve your goal. Now there are
many different model types for you to choose from
for these problems. We're recommending you start with the simpler ones which can still be highly accurate to see if
they meet your benchmark. By the way, you're
ML benchmark is the performance threshold
that you're willing to accept from your model
before you even allow it to be near
your production data. It's critical that you
set your benchmark before you train your model. So you can really be truly objective in your decision making to use the model or not. Now, on to types of models. For forecasting, try
a linear regression. For classification, try
logistic regression. By the way it's called binary
logistic regression. If you have a just two classes or buckets that an observation could fall into or multi-class
if it's more than two. For recommendations, try
matrix factorization which is a commonly used algorithm
for problems involving a matrix of users and items. Like your housing
rentals example, and here's the complete
picture again. You'll see later with BigQuery ML that you can just specify a model type equal to
linear regression for example, and BigQuery handles
the rest for you. What didn't you see
here that you might have heard of in terms
of a model type? There's many different
types of models out there that you may not
see on this chart. More complex models like
deep neural networks, decision trees, random forests are also
available for modeling. You'll even build a custom model using neural architecture
search to build a deep neural network later
on in this course and you'll do so without using any code -
that's what Auto ML. It's my overall recommendation
that even if you know how to build
advanced models, that you start with
the simpler ones first. Because they often train faster and they give
you an indication of whether not ML is even a viable solution
for your problem.